# OrangeHRM
Author: Dalbert Onyebuchi

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

### Maven Cheat codes
    https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/maven-commands-options-cheat-sheet

###  1. Clean the files and directories generated by Maven during its build
    # The Maven Clean Plugin, as the name implies, attempts to clean the files and directories generated by Maven during its build. 
    # While there are plugins that generate additional files, the Clean Plugin assumes that these files are generated inside the target directory.
```mvn clean ```
```mvn clean package```

    The `mvn build` command is commonly used in Apache Maven, a popular build automation and dependency management tool for Java projects. 
    When you run `mvn build`, it triggers the default build lifecycle of Maven, which consists of a series of phases and goals. 
    During the build process, Maven reads the project's configuration file (`pom.xml`) and performs various tasks such as compiling source code, 
    running tests, packaging the application, and managing dependencies. 
    These tasks are organized into different phases, such as `compile`, `test`, `package`, `install`, and `deploy`, among others.
    The `mvn build` command typically executes all the phases in the default lifecycle up to the `package` phase. 
    This means that Maven compiles the source code, runs unit tests, and packages the application into a distributable format (such as a JAR or WAR file). 
    However, it does not install or deploy the packaged artifact.
    By default, Maven uses the `pom.xml` file in the current directory to determine the project's configuration and dependencies. 
    It relies on convention over configuration, meaning that it follows a predefined project structure and naming conventions to simplify the build process.
    It's important to note that `mvn build` is not the exact syntax of the command. 
    The correct Maven command is `mvn clean package` to clean the previous build artifacts and then execute the build process up to the `package` phase.

### 2. Compile all plugins in your pom.xml file
```mvn compile ```

### 3. To run tests.
```mvn test ```

    # Run all the unit test classes.
    $ mvn test

    # Run a single test class.
    $ mvn -Dtest=TestApp1 test

    # Run multiple test classes.
    $ mvn -Dtest=TestApp1,TestApp2 test
    
    # Run a single test method from a test class.
    $ mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#methodname test
    
    # Run all test methods that match pattern 'testHello*' from a test class.
    $ mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#testHello* test
    
    # Run all test methods match pattern 'testHello*' and 'testMagic*' from a test class.
    $ mvn -Dtest=TestApp1#testHello*+testMagic* test


